[Music]
okay listen up here's how to perform
emergency first aid for your pet and
that's my dog shaking his fur out right
there really okay
go lay down good boy now it's probably
one of the most terrifying things you
can imagine your beloved fur baby needs
emergency medical assistance right now
whether it's from choking massive
bleeding or any other unimaginable
situation sometimes you need to act fast
before you head to the vet that's why
it's crucial that all pet owners not
only have a kid at home with basic
emergency medical supplies but also the
knowledge on how to administer first aid
on their fluffy friend this video guide
will tell you exactly what to do in
different types of emergencies when your
pets in trouble and every second counts
now before we delve further take a
second to click that subscribe button
and ring the notification bell we've got
lots of useful videos like this one
coming out daily on the bright side of
life so let's review in case of
poisoning how to help a cat now how can
you be sure your cat's got a case of
poisoning typical symptoms include
vomiting diarrhea salivation skin
irritation and convulsions if all this
was caused by poisonous gases smoke or
chemical vapors immediately get your cat
out to fresh air and try to revive it
with a cotton swab dipped in ammonia if
the animal doesn't respond administer
artificial respiration in case the
poisoning is from ingesting chemicals
toxic plants or medicines try to make
your cat vomit by giving it a strong
solution of baking soda or salt mixed in
water however if the cat has been
poisoned by an acidic substance by no
means should you induce vomiting the
harmful acidic effect will only cause
more damage when it moves back up from
the stomach through the esophagus
instead give your feline companion a
drink that will neutralize the effect of
the acid some milk or egg whites mixed
in water should do the trick use a small
syringe to force your cat to drink the
mixture
that'll be a lot easier to do if you
swaddle your kitty so that it can't run
away just remember to keep his head
tilted up and not back so that it can
swallow the drink without choking now
here's how to help a dog the main
symptoms of poisoning and dogs are
vomiting diarrhea convulsions or muscle
weakness refusal to eat and whimpering
again the same thing we covered with
cats if it's from vapor poisoning get
your pup out into the fresh air if it's
from ingesting something toxic but not
acids induce vomiting with that same
solution of water with baking soda or
salt mixed in it once your dog has
vomited you can use absorbance like half
a pill of activated charcoal per pound
of its weight or something called an
terrassa gel to absorb the remaining
poison in its stomach if your dog got
into some rat poison you'll notice blood
in its stool and vomit and a garlicky
smell coming from its mouth in case of
an airway obstruction here's how to help
a dog if foreign objects get in its
airway a dog will normally lie down with
an open mouth and glazed look twist its
head paw at its mouth and rub its head
against the floor or ground it'll also
drool excessively in this case you must
try and make your dog vomit
you can also pour a few teaspoons of
vegetable oil into its throat then try
to remove the foreign object with your
fingers or tweezers depending on the
size of the object and the dog how to
help a cat in a similar situation a cat
that's got something lodged in its
throat will show similar symptoms it'll
have increased salivation it'll rub its
muzzle cry out twist and turn make
chewing movements and try to swallow the
object or pull it out of its mouth
you'll also hear a Kitty cough and
breathe with difficulty carefully open
its mouth and inspect the inside if you
find a foreign object try to pull it out
using tweezers if you can't get the
stuck object out with tweezers then lay
your cat down on your
lower its head tap on its back and
immediately turn your pet over on its
side then press on the ribcage toward
the breast plate check if the stuck
object is now accessible and pull it out
if it is if it's not repeat these steps
until you remove the object from its
throat in case of electrical shock how
to help a dog start by removing
whatever's plugged in from the socket
open the dog's mouth and pull on its
tongue to free the airway check if the
dog is breathing by looking at its chest
if it's moving that's a good sign then
feel it's pulse on the inner surface of
the thigh if there's a pulse but the dog
isn't breathing perform artificial
respiration immediately in case there's
no pulse perform closed chest cardiac
massage
when this heart massage is combined with
artificial respiration
it's called CPR to administer CPR on
your dog put your fingers and thumb
behind your pets elbows compress the
chest six times give it a breath and
then repeat you should do 80 to 120
compressions per minute it'll be more
effective if the heart massage and
artificial breathing are performed at
the same time so if there's another
person around have each one of you take
a task pause for 10 seconds every two
minutes to check for a pulse and
breathing keep going until your pet can
breathe again or you feel a steady pulse
for 30 minutes once you've done all this
still take your pooch to the vet
immediately how to help a cat now if
your cats gotten into some open wires
and has been shocked start by cutting
off all the electric currents in the
room then put on rubber or woolen gloves
and pull the animal away from the wires
check for breathing and a pulse cool
down the burned areas and then perform
CPR again be sure to take the animal to
the vet as soon as possible
in case of burns how to help a cat in
case of a thermal burn involving steam
boiling water or fire you can try this
tea remedy make a strong brew by putting
three teabags in a cup
of hot water and had tons of ice to cool
it down then moisten a cotton swab in
the cold brew blot the burn site and
hold the swab on the wound for five to
ten minutes
gently dry it off with a napkin and
apply an antibacterial ointment or
cooling spray to the burned area in case
of acidic chemical burns washed the
affected area with plenty of water and
apply a swab soaked in a one-to-one
solution of baking soda and water how to
help a dog start by shaping the fur
around the affected area and treating it
with a solution of potassium
permanganate apply a cold compress on
the affected area and then put a
loose-fitting bandage to protect the
wound from damage and licking replace
the bandage every single day in case of
a chemical burn doused the affected area
in water for 10 to 15 minutes try not to
let the water soak other parts of your
pup so that the chemical doesn't spread
for injuries and sprains how to help a
dog if your dog has taken a pretty
serious hit to a limb or any other part
of its body you should first and
foremost apply a cold compress to the
damaged area and treat the scratches
with hydrogen peroxide and an
antibacterial ointment in case of a
fracture you'll notice the injured area
gets swollen quickly and you'll feel
crunching when you touch it before you
take the dog to the vet fix the
fractured limb to a splint if your dog
has sprained its wrist or ankle apply a
cold compress and take it to the vet how
to help a cat place the cat on a flat
surface and inspect it if there's no way
to call a vet in the first few minutes
you can make a splint yourself just take
a piece of cardboard or anything hard
and flat like a popsicle stick and fix
the limb to it with a bandage in case of
an open fracture remove
all visible foreign objects from the
wound and apply antibacterial ointment
to the edges before dressing it then you
can apply a pressure bandage now you can
take the cat to the vet in a carrier put
a blanket on the bottom to prevent your
pet from sliding around in case of
bleeding how to help a dog
you can stop minor bleeding by placing
some gauze on the cut and putting
something cold on top then rinse the
wound with clean water and treat the
edges with an antiseptic if your dog is
bleeding quite heavily wrap a bandage
around the wound nice and tight if you
see contamination in the wound treat the
edges with an antiseptic in case of
profuse bleeding make a tourniquet by
wrapping a bandage tightly around the
area above the wound put a stick through
the bandage and twist it clockwise until
the bleeding stops how to help a cat if
your cat is bleeding press a cotton swab
or gauze on the cut in case of bleeding
from the eyes use a cotton swab soaked
in cold water as for bleeding from the
nose use a swab but don't block the
cat's breathing also don't remove the
bandage to check the wound every minute
it's totally unnecessary and actually
irritates the wound making it bleed
longer well hopefully you won't ever
need to actually do anything other
things we cover today we only want your
fur babies to be happy safe and healthy
after all but now you'll be prepared in
case your furry little friend gets into
some trouble and needs your assistance
ASAP
that being said always take your pet to
the vet even after you've administered
first aid only a vet can tell if your
feline or canine companion is completely
out of harm's way or still needs further
treatment now has your pet ever gotten
into trouble it could be something
medical like we talked about today or
something harmless like chewing on your
mom's shoes you know my dog Riley that
shook his fur in the beginning he was
sprayed by a skunk in the backyard and
then ran through the house chased by the
skunk
did that stink and there are some cool
recipes to get the smell out share your
story with us in the comments don't
forget to give this video a like and
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
you